Add Function Multi Versioning. (#21)
ARM-software/acle: main/acle.md

This attribute does not apply to AArch64.

## Function Multi Versioning

> The specification for Function Multi Versioning is in `BETA` state and may
> change or be extended in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specification for Function Multi Versioning is in [**Beta** state](#current-status-and-anticipated-changes)
and may change or be extended in the future.
```

Author: ack

Function Multi Versioning provides a convenient way to select the most
appropriate version of a function at runtime. All versions of the function may
be in the final binary. The compiler generates all supported versions and the
runtime makes the selection at load time.

The following attributes trigger the multi variant code generation:
`target_version`, `target_clones`. These attributes can't be mixed. The

> "default" variant means the version of the function that would be generated

Reviewer: Should this be the following? As far as I understand `"default"` and not just `default` needs to be passed to the attribute.

```suggestion
`"default"` variant means the version of the function that would be generated
```

without these attributes.

> This feature may be turned off in compile time. In this case the "default"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature may be disabled at compile time. In this case the `"default"`
```

variant shall be used.

> `__ARM_FEATURE_FUNCTION_MULTI_VERSIONING` is defined to 1 if available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`__ARM_FEATURE_FUNCTION_MULTI_VERSIONING` is defined to 1 if the versioning mechanism described in this section is available in the compiler.
```

``` c
    __attribute__((target_version("name")))
```

when applied to a function it will become one of the versions. Function with the
same name may exist with multiple versions in the same translation unit. One
"default" version of the  function is required to be provided. Implicitly, when
without attribute, or explicitly providing the "default" in the attribute. If

> only the "default" variant exist it should be linked directly.

Reviewer: Can we make these an item list? Something like:

```
The attribute `__attribute__((target_version("name")))` expresses the following:

1. when applied to a function it will become one of the versions. Function with the
same name may exist with multiple versions in the same translation unit.
2. One
"default" version of the  function is required to be provided.
3. Implicitly, when
without attribute, or explicitly providing the "default" in the attribute.
4. If
only the "default" variant exist it should be linked directly.
```

Same for the paragraph below about `target_clones`.

In general I prefer to explicitly enumerate/itemize the rules so that they are easier to refer to.

Author: ack.

``` c 
    __attribute__((target_clones("name",...)))
```

when applied to a function the compiler emits multiple versions based on the
arguments. One of them is implicitly the "default". If a name is not recognized
the compiler should ignore it. If the default matches with an other explicitly

> provided version the compiler can emit only one function instead of the two.

Reviewer: same here, use number lists

Dependent features names could be joined by the `+` sign.

None of these attributes will enable the corresponding ACLE features.

These attributes have no effect on the calling convention, all versions must

> use the same calling convertion.

Reviewer: Given that these sentences are additional rules, and that the top of the paragraph have also rules, I would organize this paragraph as follows:

1. Introduce the concept of function multiversioning
2. introduce the names of the 2 attributes
3. introduce the rules that are common to both attributes, with enumerated list
4. introduce the rules that are specific to each attributes, with enumeration lists that are starting from the previous set of enumeration list. By doing so, you have unique numbers to refer to in the paragraph

Author: ack

### Name mangling

> The default version is not mangled top of the normal mangling.

Reviewer: normal mangling? Is this the C++ mangling rules? If so, please specify.

Author: ack.

> Version to be mangled. `<vendor-specific suffix>` should hold the version

Reviewer: I think this sentence needs to be expanded a bit, and `<vendor-specific suffix>` should be defined (I cannot find its definition anywhere)

Author: `<vendor-specific suffix>` comes from the cxxabi:
https://itanium-cxx-abi.github.io/cxx-abi/abi.html#mangling-structure

> information [[cxxabi]](#cxxabi) as:
> 
> ``` c
>     _(M<name>)*
> ```
> name is from table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information [[cxxabi]](#cxxabi) as`_(M<name>)*`, where `<name>` is from the table below.
```

Author: ack

> If multiple features are requested then those shall be applied in priority order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple features are requested then those shall be applied following rules specified in section [Selection](#selection).
```

Author: Here I referred to the mangling, I'll add an example.

### Mapping

> The following table lists the architecturesfeature mapping for AArch32

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the architecture feature mapping for AArch32.
```

   | **Priority** | **Architecture name**            | **Name**        | **Dependent feature registers** |
   | ------------ | -------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------- |
   | 0            | N/A                              | default         | ```N/A```                       |
   | 90           | CRC32 instructions               | crc32           | ```ID_ISAR5.CRC32 == 0b0001```  |
   | 100          | SHA1 instructions                | sha1            | ```ID_ISAR5.SHA1 == 0b0001```   |
   | 110          | SHA2 instructions                | sha256          | ```ID_ISAR5.SHA2 == 0b0001```   |
   | 120          | AES instructions                 | aes             | ```ID_ISAR5.AES >= 0b0001```    |
   | 130          | VMULL (polynomial) instructions  | vmull           | ```ID_ISAR5.AES == 0b0002```    |
   

> The following table lists the architecturesfeature mapping for AArch64

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the architecture feature mapping for AArch64.
```

This attribute does not apply to AArch64.

## Function Multi Versioning

The specification for Function Multi Versioning is in [**Beta** state](#current-status-and-anticipated-changes)
and may change or be extended in the future.

Function Multi Versioning provides a convenient way to select the most
appropriate version of a function at runtime. All versions of the function may
be in the final binary. The compiler generates all supported versions and the
runtime makes the selection at load time.

The following attributes trigger the multi version code generation:
`__attribute__((target_version("name")))` and `__attribute__((target_clones("name",...)))`.

1. These attributes can't be mixed with each other.
2. The `"default"` version means the version of the function that would be generated
without these attributes.
3. `"name"` is the dependent features from the tables below.
4. The dependent features could be joined by the `+` sign.
5. None of these attributes will enable the corresponding ACLE feature(s) associated
to the `"name"` expressed in the attribute.

> 6. These attributes have no effect on the calling convention, all versions must
> use the same calling convention.

Reviewer: This can be confusing, as there are attributes that can modify the calling convention [1] of a specific function without being applied to all version. I would state is as follows:

```suggestion
6. These attributes have no effect on the calling convention.
```

[1] See `aarch64_vector_pcs` at https://github.com/ARM-software/abi-aa/blob/main/vfabia64/vfabia64.rst#vector-procedure-call-standard

Author: I'd like to keep the second part as a separate item. Since the callee calls all versions in the same way changing only one  calling convention one of the function won't work.

7. If only the `"default"` version exist it should be linked directly.
8. FMV may be disabled in compile time. In this case the `"default"`
version shall be used.

The attribute `__attribute__((target_version("name")))` expresses the following:

1. when applied to a function it becomes one of the versions. Function with the same
name may exist with multiple versions in the same translation unit.
2. One `"default"` version of the function is required to be provided.
   a. Implicitly, without this attribute,
   b. or explicitly providing the `"default"` in the attribute.

> 4. All instances of the versions shall share the same function signature.

Reviewer: Inside this section I'd number these as 7. 8. 9. to be able to uniquely reference them...

The attribute `__attribute__((target_clones("name",...)))` expresses the following:

1. when applied to a function the compiler emits multiple versions based on the
arguments.
   a. One of them is implicitly the `"default"`.
   b. If the `"default"` matches with an other explicitly provided version the
compiler can emit only one function instead of the two.

> 2. If a name is not recognized the compiler should ignore it.

Reviewer: ...and consequently number these as 10. 11.

`__ARM_FEATURE_FUNCTION_MULTI_VERSIONING` is defined to 1 if the versioning
mechanism described in this section is available in the compiler and it is enabled.

### Name mangling

The `"default"` version is not mangled top of the languge specific name mangling.

> Function version to be mangled for C/C++. `<vendor-specific suffix>` should hold the version
> information [[cxxabi]](#cxxabi) as `_(M<name>)*` `name` is from tables below.

Reviewer: This needs to be clarified. May I suggest the following change:

```suggestion

The mangling function is compatible with the mangling for version information of the [[cxxabi]](#cxxabi), and it  is defined as follows:

` ` ` 
<variant name> := <c/c++mangling> `.` <vendor specific suffix> 
<c/c++ mangling> := function name mangling for c/c++
<vendor specific suffix> := token obtained from the tables below
` ` `
```

Author: `_` separator and M prefix for tokeniser is missing but I apply this format.

If multiple features are requested then those shall be appended in priority order.

For example:
``` c
__attribute__((target_clones("crc32", "aes+sha1")))
int foo(){..}
```
will produce these mangled names for C languae: `foo`, `foo._Mcrc32`, `foo._Msha1Maes`.

### Mapping

The following table lists the architectures feature mapping for AArch32

   | **Priority** | **Architecture name**            | **Name**        | **Dependent feature registers** |
   | ------------ | -------------------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------------- |

>    | 0            | N/A                              | default         | ```N/A```                       |

Reviewer: I think that the triple ` is not needed here in this table... I think it would be best to get to single `

   | 90           | CRC32 instructions               | crc32           | ```ID_ISAR5.CRC32 == 0b0001```  |
   | 100          | SHA1 instructions                | sha1            | ```ID_ISAR5.SHA1 == 0b0001```   |
   | 110          | SHA2 instructions                | sha256          | ```ID_ISAR5.SHA2 == 0b0001```   |
   | 120          | AES instructions                 | aes             | ```ID_ISAR5.AES >= 0b0001```    |
   | 130          | VMULL (polynomial) instructions  | vmull           | ```ID_ISAR5.AES == 0b0002```    |

The following table lists the architectures feature mapping for AArch64

   | **Priority**  | **Architecture name**    | **Name**      | **Dependent feature registers**           |
   | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------- | ----------------------------------------- |

>    | 0             | N/A                      | default       | N/A                                       |

Reviewer: Sometimes you write N/A and sometimes you write `N/A`. I think we can stick with the former (no ticks).

   | 340           | `FEAT_SVE_BitPerm`       | sve_bitperm   | ```ID_AA64ZFR0_EL1.BitPerm == 0b0001```   |
   | 350           | `FEAT_SVE_SHA3`          | sve_sha3      | ```ID_AA64ZFR0_EL1.SHA3 == 0b0001```      |
   | 360           | `FEAT_SME`               | sme           | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.SME == 0b0001```       |
   | 370           | `FEAT_MTE`               | mte           | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.MTE >= 0b0001```       |
   | 380           | `FEAT_MTE2`              | mte2          | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.MTE >= 0b0010```       |
   | 390           | `FEAT_MTE3`              | mte3          | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.MTE >= 0b0011```       |
   | 400           | `FEAT_SB`                | sb            | ```ID_AA64ISAR1_EL1.SB == 0b0001```       |
   | 410           | `FEAT_SSBS`              | ssbs          | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.SSBS == 0b0001```      |
   | 420           | `FEAT_SSBS2`             | ssbs2         | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.SSBS == 0b0010```      |
   | 430           | `FEAT_BTI`               | bti           | ```ID_AA64PFR1_EL1.bt == 0b0010```        |

### Selection

> The following rules shall be followed by all implementations. Implementation of
> the selection algorithm is platform dependent, where with platform means
> CPU/Vendor/OS as in the target triplet. The selection is permanent for the
> lifetime of the process. Only those versions could be considered where all
> dependent features are available.

Reviewer: I think we need itemization here too...

```suggestion
The following rules shall be followed by all implementations.

1. Implementation of
the selection algorithm is platform dependent, where with platform means
CPU/Vendor/OS as in the target triplet. 
2. The selection is permanent for the
lifetime of the process.
3. Only those versions could be considered where all
dependent features are available.
```

Rules of version selection are in order:

1. Select the most specific version else
2. select the version with the highest priority else

> 3. `"default"` shall be selected if no other versions are suitable.

Reviewer: ... and consequently, given we have already used 1,2,3 in the previous paragraph, we might want to numbers these as 4 5 and 6.

following:

13. when applied to a function the compiler emits multiple versions based on the
arguments. a. One of them is implicitly the `"default"`. b. If the `"default"`
   matches with an other explicitly provided version the compiler can emit only
   one function instead of the two.
14. If a name is not recognized the compiler should ignore it.

`__ARM_FEATURE_FUNCTION_MULTI_VERSIONING` is defined to 1 if the versioning
mechanism described in this section is supported by the compiler and it is
enabled.

### Name mangling

The `"default"` version is not mangled top of the languge specific name
mangling.

The mangling function is compatible with the mangling for version information of
the [[cxxabi]](#cxxabi), and it is defined as follows:

```
<variant name> := <c/c++mangling> `.` <vendor specific suffix>
<c/c++ mangling> := function name mangling for c/c++
<vendor specific suffix> := `_` followed by token obtained from the tables below and prefixed with `M`
```

If multiple features are requested then those shall be appended in priority
order and prefixed with `M`.

For example:
``` c
__attribute__((target_clones("crc32", "aes+sha1")))
int foo(){..}
```

> will produce these mangled names for C languae: `foo`, `foo._Mcrc32`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will produce these mangled names for C language: `foo`, `foo._Mcrc32`,
```
